#Intro to the cargo

cargo is an package manager tool which manages the project and imported libraryes like the maven project in the java
the 



##how to create the cargo project

1. to create the project **cargo new <project name>** eg: **cargo new fucker_project**

the cargo generates the 1 folder and 1 file 

the folder **src** will contains all the rust program file or .rs files 

and the file **Cargo.toml** will contains the details of the project and depences or libraryes used in the project 




##how to run the cargo package

1. first we need to **cd <project name>** build the project open teminal  command : **cargo build**

the above command will compile and generate the executable file which was located at /target/debug/<project name>
and it will also create the **Cargo.lock** This file keeps track of the exact versions of dependencies in your project. This project doesn’t have dependencies, so the file is a bit sparse. You won’t ever need to change this file manually; Cargo manages its contents for you.

2. there are 2 ways to run the executable file which was generated by the cargo 
   1. run ./target/debug/<project name> in terminal
   2. type *cargo run*

We just built a project with cargo build and ran it with ./target/debug/hello_cargo, but we can also use cargo run to compile the code and then run the resulting executable all in one command

if the project was alread compiled or project was not modified after compiling once it will just show finish instead of compiling

'''
cargo run
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.0 secs
     Running `target/debug/hello_cargo`
Hello, world!
'''

'''
cargo run
   Compiling hello_cargo v0.1.0 (file:///projects/hello_cargo)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.33 secs
     Running `target/debug/hello_cargo`
Hello, world!

'''




###we can also just check for the errors that is compile the code whithout producing any executable file by

command : **cargo check**



##recape
Let’s recap what we’ve learned so far about Cargo:

1. We can build a project using **cargo build** or **cargo check**.
2. We can build and run a project in one step using **cargo run**.
3. Instead of saving the result of the build in the same directory as our code, Cargo stores it in the **target/debug** directory.





##release the code for production 

1. to release the code for production we need to run **cargo build --release**
-> the executable will store at **target/release**


When your project is finally ready for release, you can use cargo build --release to compile it with optimizations. This command will create an executable in target/release instead of target/debug. The optimizations make your Rust code run faster, but turning them on lengthens the time it takes for your program to compile. This is why there are two different profiles: one for development, when you want to rebuild quickly and often, and another for building the final program you’ll give to a user that won’t be rebuilt repeatedly and that will run as fast as possible. If you’re benchmarking your code’s running time, be sure to run cargo build --release and benchmark with the executable in target/release.
   
   
   
   
   
